---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E6: Reflecting on Assignment 3"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-05-12
published: true
labels:
  - Assignment3
--- 

### Briefly describe your system (e.g. A store selling Pokemon game cards)
My system is a store that sells albums, merchandise, and other accessories for the K-Pop girl group known as NewJeans. 

### Any notable shortcomings, bugs, problems, or additional features not implemented?
To be frank, I was unable to implement essentially almost every feature set out for me in Assignment 3. It is essentially identical to my Assignment 2 save for a few minor changes.

### Describe what you are most proud of about your system:
Although I am lacking a lot in my system, I am most proud of my CSS design. My back-end was probably the most satisfying to complete, as it was the most difficult, but my web design was the most fun and in the end the most developed part of my system.

### Describe what you are least happy with your system:
I am least happy with my overall system and the fact that I was unable to implement the cart and any other requirements.

### How was developing this assignment different than assignment #2?
I don't think it was too different than Assignment 2, in the sense that it was adding new functions to an old design. The cookies and sessions built upon our knowledge grown from the course. Even parts like the nodemailer where it was something completely new. The main difference for me was the amount of effort and time I was able to dedicate to Assignment 2.

### When you ran into a problem, what did you do to address it?
When I ran into a problem, I would typically find resources on the Internet as well as ask my upperclassmen on how they were able to implement it. 

### Describe what worked well in doing this assignment?
The examples and in-class work applied really well to the development of my site, and my understanding was much higher than it was when I first began Assignment 1 and the foundation was already there.

### Describe what did not work well in doing this assignment?
My time management was way off and I wasn't able to complete it or much less complete at least a satisfying amount done. It ended up being less about the difficulty and more about the lack of focus and readiness of my mindset.

### What did you learn from doing this assignment?
I learned about how to use sessions and cookies and how these things that seems to come so naturally while we browse the web works. 

### If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you change?
The primary thing I would change and just about the most important, would be to simply get it over with and start working on my code. I had the resources available to me and the time I needed to get it done, but I simply didn't.

### Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging
For the time I did work on my code, I'd say I spent (a) 60% (b) 20% (c) 20%. 

### Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself) and explain briefly your rationale for the percentage breakdown. Be sure to include an overview of what specifically you and your partners contributed (e.g. “I worked on the security and my partner 1 worked on personalization”)
I worked by myself for this assignment.
